# Chris Pappas

## Full-Stack Software Developer

I call myself a **"full-stack software developer"** for a good reason! I am skilled at many aspects of **web and
software development**, with a **decade+ of experience** in orgs both small and huge. My career has taken me to
**incredible places**, and I have been fortunate to make so many **lasting connections** and friendships along the way.

I love working with **CSS** and **JS/Typescript** to produce high-quality interfaces and **UX**, using **VueJS** and 
**React** to bring my work to life. I employ back-end languages like **Golang**, **PHP**, and **NodeJS**, and frameworks 
like **Laravel** to build, iterate, and serve traffic quickly. I use **Elasticsearch** for full-text indexing and 
search, **MySQL** and **MS SQL Server**, **AWS DynamoDB**, and **Google BigQuery** databases, and **Redis** and 
**Memcache** for caching. 

For hosting and serving my content, I deploy Serverless apps to **AWS Lambda**, static sites
generated using **Hugo** to **CloudFlare Pages**, and run **Linux** servers on **Linode** and **Digital Ocean**. I have
also deployed and maintained applications running on **Kubernetes**, from CI systems like **Jenkins**, **Gitlab CI**, 
**Github Actions**, and **Buildkite**. 

I even love the challenge of working with the dark magic of complex **Regular Expressions**.

I appreciate **well-formatted** and nicely documented **Git repos**, messages, pull requests, and issue descriptions. I
love using code formatting tools that produce **well-formatted**, **consistent**, and **easy to read** sources. I value
**automated testing** and the confidence and quality that results from using it well. 

Writing this down has reminded me of _just how many_ things I've learned, and cool projects I've implemented and worked
on throughout my career. [**What should I add next?**](mailto:work@chrispappas.dev)

## My Experience

[Check out my full professional resume!](/resume/)

### Team Lead/Staff Developer at Glacier FarmMedia and AgDealer.com

I recently boomeranged back to GFM to pick up where I left off, as the **Tech Lead/Staff Engineer** for
**[AgDealer.com](https://agdealer.com)**, a leading Ag Equipment buy-and-sell publication and website. This is truly a
**"full-stack"** job, where I lead the dev team building everything including the **Elasticsearch** ingest pipeline,
image thumbnail and watermarking **AWS Lambda** utility, **RDS MS SQL Server** databases, **PHP Laravel** app
and job queue runners, **VueJS** frontend, and multiple admin applications and APIs. I even did a little bit of
**Coldfusion** stuff for that "old-school" cred.

##### _**Key Tech**: PHP, Laravel, VueJS, Elasticsearch, MS SQL Server, AWS Lambda, NodeJS_

### Senior Production Engineer at Shopify

In my most recent position at **[Shopify](https://www.shopify.com)**, I worked in **Production Engineering** on the
**Observability UX** team, as a **Senior Production Engineer**, implementing an O11y platform using **Grafana** and
**Prometheus**. My team and I developed custom **Grafana plugins** and I maintained our customized internal fork of
Grafana, keeping it up to date with the upstream repo and implementing important features for our users. This system was
used by **thousands of developers** and SREs daily to **monitor production infrastructure**, systems and apps across
**all of Shopify**.

Grafana plugin and system development uses **Golang**, **React** and **Typescript**. I also contributed to a backend
**GraphQL API**, background job runner, and **Kafka** consumer, built with **Golang** and using **MySQL**, **BigQuery**,
and **Google PubSub**. All deployed to **Kubernetes** on **Google Cloud Platform** using CI/CD with **Buildkite**,
**Docker**, and **Git**.

##### _**Key Tech**: Golang, React, Typescript, GraphQL, MySQL, BigQuery, Grafana, Prometheus, Kafka_

I have also worked in many other roles and done a lot of interesting stuff, all [detailed in my resume](/resume/).